---
title: ENCS692-2024-fall
date: 2024-09-17 11:11:18
tags: ['Study','ENCS 692']
categories: Notes
index_img:
cover:
description:
hidden: true
---
# week2
## Equality and Euqity

**Example:**

1. If you give everyone the **same equipment**, which is the tennis racket, it's **equality**. But if you give everyone a **racket** that is meant for them **based on whether** they play **left handed** or **right handed**, how big the size is, how tall the person is, that's **equity**.  
2. When we talk about climate negotiations. The idea is that if it's based on the principle of **equity**, then the countries that have **already emitted a lot** in the past should have **higher goals** to **reduce** their emissions. But if it's based on the principle of **equality**, then everyone will have the **same level** of emissions. 

# social justice and social sustainability
1. Social justice is something **we try to achieve**. The idea of social justice. Is that society should function for the benefit of all and that we need to have a society that is just and respects the rights of all
2. Social sustainability, on the other hand, it's more of a **framework** to **achieve** **social justice**. So social sustainability. You can think about it as part of the Sustainable Development Goals because sustainable development takes economic, social, and environmental sustainability in account. But you can also just think of social sustainability as a way to achieve social justice. And depending on the discipline, depending on the institution, depending on the country, depending on the situation, there are different ways defined to achieve social sustainability.

## intersectionality
### Marginalized groups

For instance, someone who is healthy, able to work of a young age, but is an early parent, for instance, their life state changes. So they belong to a marginalized group, which is lower income due to increased responsibilities at an early age. This is what is meant by life stage as opposed to age. Then socioeconomic circumstances, sexual orientation, geographical location, all of these contribute to making someone belonged to a marginalized group or not.
**In technological innovations**
So even the most basic technological innovations, for instance, the bicycle, it was made for able bodied persons. It means that people from disabilities, because of the design, get excluded. So over time, this has become the main staple of engineering and technological innovation that some groups have always remained on the margins. And because of certain innovations, because of certain engineering designs, because of certain engineering solutions, they have actually become more and more marginalized. So systematically, they have been pushed out of participation, participating in society because of such innovations. 

**So we have to realize that the discipline of engineering, it's full of biases, and it has always excluded some groups. While only including a few. And because of that, we need to rethink the way we think about engineering solutions and the discipline of engineering itself. So these are some of our main current challenges. That we need to think about equity, social justice, and social sustainability when we think about any engineering solutions**

So it means that in this case, the increased marginalization of disabled was created due to technology. 

[**Week2 reading**](https://www.technologyreview.com/2019/01/09/137899/smart-cities-coule-be-lousy-if-you-have-a-disability/)